what's up guys karma medic here welcome
back to another dose I'm actually in my
exam revision period now as a first-year
med evac ACL let's just jump right into
it today I want to talk about the UK pad
exam and how I managed to score so well
also I got a new phone so plus I got a
new phone so hopefully the video quality
is good so I took the UK cat exam in the
late summer of 2016 I really only had
about four weeks to prepare and that's
because I was applying to both Canadian
and UK medical schools at the same time
what I ended up doing was I would spend
about two to three hours on the UK
account every single day for exactly
four weeks so how I see the UK con is
really a game of learning how to play
the exam you just have to make sure you
know what the questions are looking for
you know what the answers look like and
you just do enough practice them
anything you see becomes similar to
something that you've already done when
I did the UK cat exam the four sections
were abstract reasoning verbal reasoning
quantitative reasoning and situational
judgment if you get context to change
from year to year so keep that in mind
you guys might have a different section
okay so I'm sure you're all wondering
what I got I ended up scoring eight
thirty in quantitative reasoning a
twenty and abstract reasoning 670 in the
verbal section that's because I suck at
english and then Bantu in situational
judgment Kay so before I get into the
specific sections that were tested on my
UK cat exam I want to talk about some
general tips and I think these tips are
gonna be extremely useful when you're
practicing but the first one is to make
sure you triage the harder questions and
what that means is that you skip the
harder questions and you leave them to
the end personally I love doing exams in
order I love doing questions in order
everything in order
but trust me for the UK cat exam you
want to make sure you get the easy marks
first you're gonna end up spending a lot
of time on the harder questions and
they're worth the exact same amount as
the easy questions and the examiners
know this and they'll often put hard
questions near to the beginning so that
students can get stuck on them and waste
a lot of time there so make sure that
you skip the harder questions and leave
them to the end also it's important to
say that the exam is taken on a computer
and you need to use a calculator that's
computer-based so make sure you get used
to using a keyboard and mouse before the
actual daily time stop when it comes to
that day you're already familiar with
everything works if you go on their
website you can download their interface
so that you can practice exams on the
actual interface that's gonna be the
same as on your exam date okay this is
something that I wish I had done when I
was revising for the UK camp when you
are looking for your answers and you
realize that you got a question wrong
don't just mark it as wrong and then
move on and continue marketing questions
look at that question realize what the
thought process was in your head that
led you to getting that question wrong
because it's really easy to have
negative patterns and continue to do
them over past exams you want to make
sure you find those early on and fix
them get them out of the way really just
practice practice practice you can go
online to the official UK account
website they have plenty of resources
there are plenty of past papers that you
can do for free so definitely make use
of those there's a really great forum in
the UK if you don't know called the
student room you can just go there find
the UK cat section and ask questions to
other students also going through the UK
account also something that I did that I
found really useful was keeping a track
to break down of all the different
sections from the past exam questions
and seeing how I was doing
so for verbal reasoning every time I did
a past exam or past subsection of
questions I would write down the
percentage of questions I got right and
so I could track that over time and that
way you can see what section you're
performing worst in what section you're
performing best and then lastly the test
is very very fast-paced and it's okay if
you don't manage to go through all the
questions in a section okay so that's it
for the general tips so let's get into
these specific subsections and I'm gonna
start with verbal reasoning verbal
reasoning was my worst section I really
didn't read a lot as a kid I didn't have
the best vocabulary and so I didn't
perform that well but I still have a lot
of very useful tips to give you guys in
verbal section you're gonna come across
a lot of really long passages and a lot
of really short passages and you're
gonna read a passage and then there's
going to be questions relating to that
passage okay you should not use outside
information to answer those questions
if the passage says that spaghetti grows
on trees and the question asks do the
spaghetti grow on trees the answer is
yes since the only answers can be
true/false or out of scope
so if the answer is true that means that
it's going to be specifically stated in
the passage and it has to match the
passage if the answer is going to be
false that means that there is a
contradicting or opposite statement made
in the passage if the answer is can't
tell that means that from the
information in the passage you are not
able to decide if the answer is true or
false and don't be scared to put down
don't tell don't tell she comes up a
decent amount of the time so always keep
it there as an option make sure you
leave the long complicated passages for
later on do the quick easy ones first
and maximize the number of points you
can get so when you read the question
there's always going to be a couple of
key words and these will usually be
things like names dates cities or places
so you want to take those key words and
then go to the passage and quickly scan
for them once we find that matching word
read one line above one line below and
your answers should be located somewhere
in there so make sure to quickly scan
for all those important and key words
relating to the question if you get
stuck on a question and you end up
spending too much time on it just skip
it just move on click a guess and then
go to the next question is it's worth
the exact same amount of marks as all
the other questions just skip it and
move on also when reading the questions
focus on the words some cannot most
least any of these words are going to be
used to try and trick you in your
thought process when you're reading the
question so make sure you underline
those and pay special attention to them
okay so moving on to quantitative
reasoning quantitative reasoning is a
scary section for a lot of people but
even if you're not that good at math
don't worry you can still do well you
just need to really really practice okay
quantitative reasoning is all about
knowing the equations that you have to
use in the questions and using them
quickly and efficiently all the math is
very very simple in quantitative
reasoning section probably basic things
that you've done in GCSE or the IB
before the difficult part comes in very
quickly answering the questions doing
the mental math not wasting time on the
calculator things like that I'm gonna
put up a bunch of equations on the
screen somewhere here here here in here
make sure you pause the video write all
these down and memorize them because
you're going to need them at some point
you
at exam so one of the biggest tips I can
give you is when you need to estimate a
value from a graph make sure you take
the time to estimate it within a decent
degree of accuracy all the questions are
going to involve either one calculation
two calculations or three calculations
if you can tell from the very beginning
that a question is gonna take three or
more calculations just skip it and leave
it to the end because that's gonna take
a lot of time a lot of energy on that
one question and again that question is
gonna be with the same exact amount of
marks as all the other questions that
required just one calculation or reading
or interpreting a graph also know your
weaknesses so for me personally I really
struggled with any questions that have
to do with taxes or time zones and any
time those questions came up I would
just simply go through see if there were
any really quick questions that I could
gather marks on and then leave the rest
of it till the end focus on your
strengths and maximize the amount of
marks you can get and the last thing
I'll say about quantitative reasoning is
honestly just two tons of practice
through lots of paper question that's
the only way that you're gonna get
comfortable with all the different kinds
of questions that are asked and it'll
help you do mental math more quickly
that's verbal and quantitative reasoning
out of the way let's move on to my
favorite section which is abstract
reasoning I absolutely love this section
because it didn't involve any thinking
well not so much thinking but it didn't
involve any like hard concentration or
math you just have to look at the shapes
run through the things that you
memorized in your head and choose what
you thought was best if you don't know
abstract reasoning you'll have blocks a
blocks B and then you'll have a couple
of new shapes over here and you'll have
to decide if they fit blocks a or blocks
B there's also another kind of question
where you have a sequence of shapes and
you need to decide what the next shape
would be in that sequence okay so for
abstract reasoning you need to find a
rule for these shapes to fit into either
boxes a or boxes be a rule that contains
the word or or at least is not an
acceptable rule so for example boxes a
or have a square or a triangle that's
not gonna work or they have at least one
triangle that's also not gonna work you
want to try and find positive rules as
opposed to negative rules and what I
mean by that is a positive rule will say
that there is always a triangle in each
box a negative rule will say that there
is not a triangle in each box you've
probably heard of this before
it's a really
common method used and that's the scans
method that stands for shape color I
don't remember
it stands for shape color arrangement
number and size so basically what you
want to do is you want to look at B oh
these are my UK count notes by the way
we'll get into those a little bit later
but basically what you want to do is you
want to look at the question and you
want to look at the two boxes and run
through these things in your head scan
so what I'm gonna do is read out what I
have under each section of scans so for
shape for example what I would look for
within that category I just write these
down and when you're going through the
questions just keep these in your mind
for things to look out for that a
pattern could be okay so some tips for
the abstract reasoning section
definitely definitely definitely when
you're comparing boxes and boxes B look
at the simplest box so the simplest box
is also gonna follow the rule that all
the other more complicated boxes follow
so always look at the simplest box first
and try and decipher the rule from there
for the sequencing questions my best
advice is just focus on one element so
if there's five different shapes in that
sequence just focus on one shape and see
how it changes over time usually it
changes color or changes size between
boxes maybe it rotates a little bit each
time so just try and focus on one shape
at a time all right and now let's move
on to the final section which is
situational judgment the situational
judgment test is gonna be showing you a
paragraph it's usually something through
with an ethical or moral dilemma in the
hospital or in a working or studying
environment something like your friend
wants to cheat on an exam someone in the
hospital stealing medication and
confidential patient records have been
left on the public space something like
this so then they're gonna give you a
statement relative to that scenario and
you're gonna need to decide if it is
very appropriate appropriate but not
ideal extremely inappropriate or
inappropriate but not awful do usually
with these kinds of questions it's easy
to decide if something is appropriate or
inappropriate and then you need to
decide whether it's completely
appropriate or appropriate but not ideal
just to give you an idea of how much
time I spent on the situational judgment
thing these are my notes for the yucatan
exam they consist of six pages three
pages double-sided if you
here this is my verbal reasoning yeah so
this is my verbal reasoning this is my
quantitative reasoning and this is my
abstract reasoning for the most part and
then this down here is situational
judgment this whole page is situational
judgment this came to situational
judgment this page is situational
judgment and the back page is also
situational judgment so I spent a lot of
a lot of time on situational judgment
practice questions so I found that by
doing tons and tons of practice
questions you could figure out if the
statement given was gonna be exactly a B
C or D specifically for situational
judgment I'm just gonna tell you guys
some things that I wrote down that I
think are the most important and appeal
to a lot of the questions across this
section and hopefully that helps you out
all right so let's see what do I read
down here okay so these are the 10 most
important tips that I found from doing
situational judgment so never do
anything that undermines the public's
impression of the field of medicine
always maintain confidentiality address
problems immediately seek local
lower-tier help first before you
escalate that situation and talk to a
superior so always talk to the person
that's involved with the problem before
you escalate always put patient health
and safety first then patient comfort
and public confidence so patient health
and safety is always always always going
to be the overriding factor if you're
doing something that helps patient
safety then that is totally appropriate
that's answer a no one should solve
problems on behalf of someone else the
person who did the problem should take
full responsibility acknowledge what
they did and they should be the ones to
apologize never apologize on someone's
behalf seeking advice from a senior is
almost always an appropriate thing to do
an illegal act is always an extreme
answer totally inappropriate doctor must
support the wishes of the patient as far
as treatment goes and the patient should
have informed consent lying is always
super inappropriate any question or any
statement that involves lying -
definitely inappropriate if you see
something negative you should report it
yourself for example a student cheating
on an exam or someone stealing
medication from the hospital that should
be something that you report the u.k
count is a game of
practice you just have to learn how to
do the test practice the questions and
you'll be fine mostly I think that's
about it
write down everything that you learn as
you're going through these arms you're
probably gonna forget it if you guys
want to see my thought process and how
my tackle specific questions within
these sections for example doing an
abstract reasoning question on camera
and just talking about my thought
process and what I would do while I was
going through it please leave a comment
down below I'd be happy to make a video
like that that's it if you take an exam
if you guys have any questions feel free
to leave them in a comment down below
feel free to DM me message mean whatever
I'm you on my social media don't forget
to leave a like on this video subscribe
to the channel if you want to see more
videos from me and yeah that's about it
good luck preparing ask me any questions
you want down below and I'll see you
guys in the next video peace